FRC is the FIRST Robotics competition
FRC teaches Gracious Professionalism to its participants
FRC was founded by Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers. Dean L. Kamen is an American engineer, inventor, and businessman. He is best known for his invention of the Segway.
FRC is the flagship competition of FIRST.
A large-scale robotics competition, FIRST® Robotics Competition brings together students and mentors to build robots that perform in a competitive but gracious environment against teams from all over the world.
FRC is an international high school robotics competition. Each year, teams of high school students, coaches, and mentors work during a six-week period to build game-playing robots that weigh up to 120 pounds (54 kg).
2018 was the 27th year of FRC.
The FRC Water game is a highly anticipated event, happening once in a blue moon. With the upcoming moon themed season, teams will compete to be the first to paint the moon blue in the hopes of a water game. Will they succeed? Or will the moon painting all be a hoax?
Join our expedition into the 30th season of FIRST®! Travel with FIRST® Robotics Competition to the outer limits of the universe in DESTINATION:  DEEP SPACESM Presented By The Boeing Company.
Combining the excitement of sport with the rigors of science and technology. We call FIRST Robotics Competition the ultimate Sport for the Mind. High-school student participants call it “the hardest fun you’ll ever have.”
The positive impact on FIRST Robotics Competition participants is gratifying and well documented. Over 88% have more interest in doing well in school and 92% are more interested in attending college.
The FIRST Robotics Competition gives high school students and their adult mentors the opportunity to work and create together to solve a common problem.
A big advantage to participating in FIRST is gaining access to millions in college scholarships made available by colleges, universities, and corporations who support FIRST. This is exclusive financial help open only to FIRST team members, giving them a competitive leg up on other students seeking educational funds.
Join the conversation and help #makeitloud! It's easy to stay up-to-date on what is happening within the FIRST® community.
FRC Team 3132, The Thunder Down Under, is a FIRST Robotics team from Sydney Australia. They won the championships chairmans award in 2017.
FRC Team 1254, Teh Chezy Cakes, from the FRC Couch Division
FRC Team 1678 Citrus Circuits from Davis, California
For FRC matches, please refer to The Blue Alliance
The really cool thing about FRC is that all skill levels are welcomed and needed, technical or non-technical. Read more about team basics, time frame, commitment, and skills required.
