FRC is the FIRST Robotics competition
FRC teaches Gracious Professionalism to its participants
FRC was founded by Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers. Dean Kamen is an American engineer, inventor, and businessman. He is best known for his invention of the Segway.
FRC is the flagship competition of FIRST.
A large-scale robotics competition, FIRST® Robotics Competition brings together students and mentors to build robots that perform in a competitive but gracious environment against teams from all over the world.
FRC is an international high school robotics competition. Each year, teams of high school students, coaches, and mentors work during a six-week period to build game-playing robots that weigh up to 120 pounds (54 kg).
2018 was the 27th year of FRC, with the game FIRST Power Up
FIRST Power Up is the FIRST Robotics Competition game for the 2018 season. It involves two alliances of three teams each, with each team controlling a robot and performing specific tasks on a field to score points.
The game has a retro 8-bit theme and teams are required to place milk crates, or "power cubes", on large balancing scales to tip the scale and gain ownership.
Alliances can also trade power cubes for power ups, giving them a temporary advantage in a match. At the end of the match, robots can climb the tower attached to the centre balancing scale using a rung attached to the tower, giving them additional points.
The FRC Water game is a highly anticipated event, happening once in a blue moon. With the upcoming moon themed season, teams will compete to be the first to paint the moon blue in the hopes of a water game. Will they succeed? Or will the moon painting all be a hoax?
Join our expedition into the 30th season of FIRST®! Travel with FIRST® Robotics Competition to the outer limits of the universe in DESTINATION:  DEEP SPACE Presented By The Boeing Company.
Each alliance owns two Portals at the two corners opposite to its Alliance Station. This is where Human Players can give robots additional power cubes through the walls and each contains 7 power cubes. It includes the tape and the wall used to define the area.
Combining the excitement of sport with the rigors of science and technology. We call FIRST Robotics Competition the ultimate Sport for the Mind.
FRC high-school student participants call it “the hardest fun you’ll ever have.”
The positive impact on FRC participants is gratifying and well documented. Over 88% have more interest in doing well in school and 92% are more interested in attending college.
The FIRST Robotics Competition gives high school students and their adult mentors the opportunity to work and create together to solve a common problem.
A big advantage to participating in FIRST is gaining access to millions in college scholarships made available by colleges, universities, and corporations who support FIRST.
This is exclusive financial help open only to FIRST team members, giving them a competitive leg up on other students seeking educational funds.
Join the conversation and help #makeitloud! It's easy to stay up-to-date on what is happening within the FIRST® community.
FRC Team 3132, The Thunder Down Under, is a FIRST Robotics team from Sydney Australia. They won the championships chairmans award in 2017.
FRC Team 1254, Teh Chezy Cakes, from the FRC Couch Division
FRC Team 1678 Citrus Circuits from Davis, California
For FRC matches, please refer to The Blue Alliance
The really cool thing about FRC is that all skill levels are welcomed and needed, technical or non-technical.
FIRST Robotics Competition pairs high school students with adult mentors (primarily engineers and
teachers) to design and build ROBOTS that compete against one another in a high-energy environment.
This varsity Sport for the Mind™ combines the excitement of sport with the rigors of science and technology.
Under strict rules, limited resources and time limits, teams of students are challenged to raise funds, design a team “brand,” hone teamwork skills, and build and program ROBOTS to perform prescribed tasks against a field of competitors.
It’s as close to “real-world” engineering as a student can get.
Each January at an event known as “Kickoff,” a new, challenging game is introduced.
These exciting competitions combine the practical application of science and technology with the fun, intense energy and
excitement of a championship-style sporting event.
Teams are encouraged to display Gracious Professionalism®, help other teams, and cooperate while competing.
This is known as Coopertition®.
In 2018, FIRST Robotics Competition will reach 90,000 high-school students representing more than 3,600 teams.
Teams come from nearly every state in the United States, as well as many other countries.
FIRST Robotics Competition teams will participate in 63 Regional Competitions, 85 District Competitions, and 10 District Championships.
In addition, approximately 800 teams will qualify to go to one of the two FIRST Championships at the end of April, 2018.
This year’s game, and this manual, were presented at the 2018 FIRST Robotics Competition Kickoff on
At FIRST, Coopertition® is displaying unqualified kindness and respect in the face of fierce competition.
Coopertition is founded on the concept and philosophy that teams can and should help and cooperate
with one another even as they compete. Coopertition involves learning from teammates and mentors.
Coopertition means competing always, but assisting and enabling others when you can.
During the remaining 2 minutes and 15 seconds of the match, the Teleoperated period, student drivers
control Robots. Teams on an Alliance work together to continue to control their Switch and the Scale.
They can also trade in their Power Cubes for Power Ups. During the final 30 seconds, teams work together to Climb to Face the Boss.
Control the Switches and the Scale. Robots collect Power Cubes and place them on
Alliances work to have Ownership for as much time as possible.
Earn Power Ups. Robots deliver Power Cubes to their humans who then place them into the Vault earning the Alliance Power Ups.
FRC alliances use Power Ups to gain a temporary advantage during the Match.
There are three Power Ups available to teams: Force, Boost, and Levitate.
Force gives the alliance ownership of the Switch, Scale, or both for a limited period of time
Boost doubles the rate points are earned for a limited period of time
Levitate gives a robot a free climb
Climb the Scale. Robots Climb the Scale in order to be ready to Face The Boss.
Leave the POWER CUBES alone. Prior to the start of the MATCH, DRIVE TEAMS may not rearrange the POWER CUBES within a PORTAL, staged on the FIELD (that are not staged inside a ROBOT), or transfer POWER CUBES from one PORTAL to another.
It doesn’t support you. Teams may not sit or stand on POWER CUBES.
Don’t mess with the POWER CUBES. Teams may not modify POWER CUBES in any way
COACHES, no POWER CUBES. During a MATCH, COACHES may not touch POWER CUBES
Do not eat power cubes.
